# mt_rl #

Pronounced /ɛmt.aɻɛlː/ or "Mount Arelle". This is an attempt at a real
roguelike for [Minetest][1]. It was something I wanted to do in the original
Mine*craft* but good lord, Forge wasn't really something to laugh at.

[1]: http://minetest.net

## Story ##

Your quest for Etinarg's Band, an artifact to grant demigodhood as the
legends go, is nearing its end. It has led to you a small village shadowed
by Mt. Arelle of which the faintest whispers have described. For a village
in the middle of nowhere, it has everything you would want: a blacksmith and
outfitter, a tailor, a librarium, a fletcher, and even a mine! That mine is
awfully fishy, come to think of it...

## Mechanics ##

(TO-DO: If this takes off, make this a GitHub wiki)

## Inventory ##

When beginning the end of your quest, you get nine slots. This is all you
can carry on you and in your pockets. Some treasures will make this
expandable and accessible via the Statistics Screen.

## Statistics ##

Default key: `[TAB]`
The Statistics Screen shows you the statistics of your quest thus far. If
you have certain treasures that expand your inventory, those items will be
available to swap in and out of your hotbar.

## Village Mechanics ##

### Commerce and Economy ###

The currency of The Village at Mount Arelle is the "Piece of Nine". Pieces
of Nine are made from nine "Pendecimals". Maybe in an unfair sense, imagine
the US dollar; except that nine cents made the dollar. That's the
pendecimals' relationship to the pieces of nine. Sometimes, you'll find
pendecimals and othertimes you'll find pieces of nine. Monetarily, you can
have one piece of nine or nine pendecimals, but they will use two inventory
slots. Visit a The Bank and disregard how grammatically wrong that sounds to
get them converted.

### The Bank ###

In The Village, there exists a The Bank. In The Mines and The Dungeons, there
exist many The Banks. Any The Bank will store your items and money for you,
so you can retrieve them at another The Bank. Sounds like a good plan to
deposit in The Mines or The Dungeons and withdraw in The Village.

### Weaponry, Armory, and Equipping ###

#### The Armory ####

The Armory is where weapons and armor can be bought or sold. Lucky for you,
the services provided to get that taken care of are right there.
Unfortunately for you, this is where The Outfitter makes his money from.

#### The Blacksmith ####

The Blacksmith can make some armor for you as well. In order to receive
these goods, you must bring him some raw materials and some pieces of nine
for funding. You can also purchase raw materials from him. Whatever raw
materials The Blacksmith has when you trade with him will also go towards
the material cost of an armor or weapon.

**STRATEGY**: When you find raw materials such as iron ores in The Mines and
  The Dungeons, sell them to The Blacksmith. Ores will be refined into
  ingots after a period of time. 

#### The Outfitter ####

Armor is a very complicated field when it comes to getting it on and
off. Does a knight take off his head and hands before going to bed? He takes
off his helmet and gauntlets first. No wait, that's not right. He has The
Outfitter take off his helmet and gauntlets as part of the evening
routine. Whereas your armor and weapons are expensive to own and maintain,
the outfitter is cheap.

### Jewellery: Not Just for Women and Bureaucrats ###

Goldsmithing, silversmithing, and assorted jewellery-related tasks are a bit
beyond the Blacksmith's trade. He's not the sort of fellow to be
ornate. That's where The Jeweler comes in play. You don't even have to pay
The Outfitter a visit to make use!

Jewellery are items that do not serve a direct purpose, but may come in
handy in a pinch with proper preparations. Alone, jewellery is only good as
an item of trade. If enchanted by The Enchanter, its value not only can
double in Pieces of Nine, but also double in personal value when that
enchantment saves your behind.

Jewellery cannot be equipped. Enchanted jewellery's function is only
available when in your hotbar.

### Magic and the Art of Farting Fireballs ###

"Dude, hold my ale." are the last words of too many inexperienced mages to a
standerby before... well... The Magicry Shoppe has what you need when it
comes to magic. There are wands, scrolls, and runes you can use to cast
spells, talismans to invoke effects, and overpriced preënchanted items.

...Actually, it won't be possible to enchant new items. Just existing ones
can be sapped for some sort of energy.

### Shopping et Cetera ###

Every now and then, The Peddler comes to town. He'll bring things in that
you might not find in a store. He might also bring things you might not find
in The Mines or The Dungeons either. Goods can also be sold to The Peddler
for some pocket change. If no one else in The Village is willing to buy some
bauble you uncovered, ask The Peddler about it.

### Research ###

Some parts of The Mines and The Dungeons will not be a pleasant struggle if
you go in uneducated. The Librarium should have version of this wiki in a
section, a bestiary in another (how you get this information will be left
unspoiled), and assorted lore books everywhere. Can you crack the secrets of
The Ancient Race?

### Tools ###

The world is pretty much read-only. It will not be possible for an average
player to break walls and such. Certain obstacles can and will require the
use of tools, such as cave-ins and digging for treasures.

### Crafting ###

Very little crafting is possible within `mt_rl`. At best, there will
be a basic equation in your Statistics Screen. Item 1 + Item 2 = Item 3.
This will be for the most primitive "crafting", assembling some things
together like tool heads to shafts.

## Secrets of The Dead ##

(TO-DO: Make books pleasant to use with some UI, like bookmarking)

The Ancient Race has a secret buried with them. To get started on figuring
this out, see if you can acquire a copy of *The Osśuaso Culture* from The
Peddler. Note to self: for spoilers' sakes, please don't document this quest
at all in the wiki. We don't need this to get ruined.

## Multi-Player ##

Currently, nothing is set up for it.
